## Git Commands

    1. git init
        ○ Creates a new Git repository in your current folder.
        ○ Example: git init makes the folder ready to track changes.
    2. git clone
        ○ Downloads a repository from a remote server (like GitHub).
        ○ Example: git clone https://github.com/user/repo.git.
    3. git add
        ○ Stages files to include in the next commit.
        ○ Example: git add file.txt gets "file.txt" ready to be saved.
    4. git commit
        ○ Saves changes to the repository with a message.
        ○ Example: git commit -m "Added feature".
    5. git status
        ○ Shows what’s happening in your project (e.g., files changed or staged).
        ○ Example: git status lists your file changes.
    6. git log
        ○ Displays a history of commits.
        ○ Example: git log shows what changes were made and when.
    7. git branch
        ○ Manages branches in your project.
        ○ Example: git branch lists all branches; git branch new-branch creates one.
    8. git checkout
        ○ Switches between branches or specific commits.
        ○ Example: git checkout main moves you to the "main" branch.
    9. git merge
        ○ Combines changes from one branch into another.
        ○ Example: git merge feature-branch.
    10. git diff
        ○ Shows differences between files or commits.
        ○ Example: git diff displays what’s changed but not staged.


Remote Repository Commands

    11. git pull
        ○ Updates your local repository with changes from the remote.
        ○ Example: git pull origin main.
    12. git push
        ○ Uploads your commits to the remote repository.
        ○ Example: git push origin main.
    13. git remote
        ○ Manages connections to remote repositories.
        ○ Example: git remote -v shows connected remotes.
    14. git fetch
        ○ Downloads changes from the remote repository but doesn’t merge them.
        ○ Example: git fetch origin.


Undo or Fix Mistakes

    15. git reset
        ○ Undoes changes or moves commits.
        ○ Example: git reset file.txt removes the file from the staging area.
    16. git revert
        ○ Reverses a commit by making a new one that cancels it out.
        ○ Example: git revert <commit-hash>.
    17. git stash
        ○ Temporarily saves changes so you can work on something else.
        ○ Example: git stash hides your work; git stash pop restores it.
    18. git rm
        ○ Deletes a file and stages the removal.
        ○ Example: git rm file.txt.


Advanced Commands

    19. git rebase
        ○ Re-applies commits on top of another branch.
        ○ Example: git rebase main.
    20. git tag
        ○ Marks a specific point in your project’s history.
        Example: git tag v1.0 creates a version tag.
